hi everyone welcome to signals and systems course
in this video I am going to make an introduction to signals and systems
signals are defined as functions of one or more independent variables that typically carry some type of information
this figure shows a one dimensional signal
here x axis is the time and y axis is the value of the function f of t
for instance the y axis can represent the temperature or speed
voltages and currents as a function of time in an electrical circuit are also examples of signals
for instance this plot shows the variation of the inductor current as a function of time which is a one dimensional signal
one very common example of a signal is a speech signal
you can think of the speech signal as the fluctuations in acoustic pressure as a function of time
a typical speech signal looks like as given in the figure
here the speech signal corresponds to the word hello
speech signal is also an example of one dimensional signals
another common example signal is the image signal
you can think of the image signal as the variations in brightness as a function of two spatial variables
therefore image signal is an example of two dimensional signals
this figure shows a binary felix cat image
binary image means that the brightness values can be either one or zero
you can think of this image as a thirty five by thirty five matrix where each component of the matrix is one or zero
this figure also shows a popular gray scale image used in image processing
the signals are categorized as continuous time signals and discrete time signals depending on the underlying independent variable
in case of continuous time signals
the independent variable is continuous and these signals are defined for a continuum of values of the independent variable
temperature and speed as a function of time are some examples of continuous time signals
however in discrete time signals independent variable takes on only a discrete set of values
as a result these signals are defined only at discrete times
stock market index as a function of weeks is and example of discrete time signal
to distinguish between continuous time and discrete time signals
we use different notations
the independent variable in continuous time signal is denoted by t and it is enclosed in parenthesis
on the other hand the independent variable in discrete time signal is denoted by n and it is enclosed in brackets
these figures show continuous and discrete time signals graphically
here it is important to note that discrete time signal is defined only for integer values of the independent variable
a continuous time signal can be converted into a discrete time signal using sampling
you are going to learn more about these concepts throughout the course
the next important topic in this course is the systems
systems are used to process signals
for instance a camera is a system that receives light from different sources and produces a photograph
an electrical circuit by itself is a system where it responds to applied voltages and currents
also processing an image signal to produce its enhanced version is an example of a system
systems are also categorized as continuous time and discrete time
a continuous time system is a system where the input is a continuous time signal and this input results in an output
which is also a continuous time signal
the pictorial representation of such a system is given on the left hand side
a discrete time system transforms a discrete time input signal into a discrete time output signal
the pictorial representation of a discrete time signal is given on the right hand side
in this video I have made an introduction to signals and systems
let me know if you have any questions
thank you